alright so let's so now add the code or
the setup here to delete a contact so
like edit we will need a menu item but we
don't need a dialogue that would be nice
if we display a message though asking
the user to confirm the deletion we can
do that instead of using the dialog box
which we don't need by using an alert
box so first let's go ahead and add the
menu code to the main.xml come
over here duplicate the line we have
for edit copy and paste that will change that
to delete then the delete method going
to change the name of that to be the on
action should say to delete contact
okay look take a copy of that so
let go now to our
controller and we're going to change the code or
add the code so that's we
can delete the record so we're going to
clean it up a little bit and the code....
...
we're going to add another alert now
just as a confirmation before we go
ahead and delete we do that with...
...
the last thing we need
to do is just add our handling of the
the alert so optional button type....
....
code is very similar to the edit
contact handler except we don't have to
show a dialogue so first we're ensuring
that a contact is selected then we
display the confirmation message and
just to be user-friendly we've included
the selected contacts first and last
name in the confirmation message if the
user confirms the delete by clicking ok
we are calling the delete contact method with
the selected contact and after the
deletion is complete
we're going to we do save the
remaining contacts now since we're using
data binding the table will
automatically update as it has in the
other scenarios so let's just run this
to confirm that will work out so firstly
in the case of not selecting contact
click on delete we get our please
select the contact you want to delete so
that's good
if i click on record here the second one
click on delete are you sure you want to
delete the selected contact brian
johnson which matches the record click
on cancel firstly to make sure that it
hasn't updated to be a hundred percent
sure will close the app down and run it
again to make sure that record still
exists because we press cancel still
there which is good so this time I'll
click on the record click on edit click
on delete you sure you want to delete
this time going to click on OK
the records deleted as you can see there
and again shut down the to be sure their
aren't any issues and we got our three
records
alright so that's it we've completed our
application now it would be nice if the
table always filled the parent window
depending on the contacts you added you
may find this an empty space to the
right of the columns and if we actually
make this bigger you can see we end up
having a lot of space but also what we
want to do here is that if we want to
make this smaller or larger we should
really be seeing that
table resizing just to basically fit the
window so that occupies the entire width
so let's say add a bonus tip here to get
that to work
what you have to do is we have to set
the column resize policy of the table
view so that the width of the columns
will add up to the width of the
tableview so right now the table view is
occupying the full width of the window
and we can see that in this case because
of the alternating background color of
the rows stretching across the entire
width of the window you can see between
as it is now but the column width
then selves aren't adding up to the width
of the tableview so in other words un
occupied space in the tableview so
let's go ahead and set the resize policy
to fix that we need to go back to our
main . fxml file and just below
where we have defined the tableview line
after first definition we add
a column resize policies we put...
...
let's just run this and then we'll go
back and talk about it notice already
have things of space themselves a little
bit more and make this a bigger we now got
things expanding automatically to use up
the amount of space we've got whether we
resize to make it larger or smaller
that's obviously much better than what
we had it so there are some other things
you could certainly do to enhance this
application example of a few things you
could
firstly allow the user to add more input
about each contact or you could add the
code to verify user input which will
probably be something that i would
highly recommend you could look at
adding cell factories to differentiate
contacts in someway for example business
vs personal etc allow the user to
add a photo of each contact perhaps you
can add a toolbar and if you're really
feeling adventurous maybe add
error handling code to the load/store
methods so that the user doesn't have to
provide any notes for contact again you
saw what happened when I didn't provide
notes in the previous video I managed to
actually crash the application the
application could be enhanced to be
literally any way you could think of but
you do know enough about javafx to learn
and use what we didn't cover so i hope
you enjoyed this tour of javafx and
the topics and videos that we've worked
through this section and that you know
have some solid understanding of how to
use Java fx to create Java
applications with rich user interfaces
let's move on now to the next section of
this course